I'm Vicki MacDonald and I'm at Holy Trinity Church, Fandedno, as part of the Longest Yarn
and I'm talking to Margaret who has a story about her mother and father meeting and getting married.
Yeah.
So tell me Margaret.
My mum lived in Italy and during the war my dad was there and I was born in 1946
which was just after the war wasn't it?
So was your mum Italian?
My mum was Italian.
And your father met her when he was fighting during the war in Italy.
Yes.
And they must have married after not knowing each other for a very long time.
Well I think, I didn't find out until many years ago that my mum was pregnant before they got married
and it was simple in those days.
She came from a very big family.
I think there were 16 children I think.
And there were farmers, their parents were farmers.
And of course when she found out she was pregnant she had to leave the family.
And so my dad brought her back to England and he came from Devon, he lived in Devon.
But his mother didn't like my mum because she was Italian, because they were fighting against the Italians.
And when my dad wasn't there she used to keep my mum locked in the bedroom with me.
She wasn't allowed to go anywhere else in the house you know.
And so she did have quite a rough time.
That sounds difficult. Were you the child that she was pregnant with?
Yes.
Goodness.
And she locked you and your mother?
In the bedroom.
Yes.
And eventually did things get better?
Yes, things got better because my dad moved away from Devon.
And moved away from his family so that he would stop ill treating his wife.
Goodness.
But I didn't realise that the Brits were fighting against the Italians weren't they?
Indeed.
At the time. And I didn't realise that.
So as a child you were brought up in a strange dilemma of not knowing quite who you were.
Yes.
Especially when your mum was feeling kind of very disconcerted.
Oh yes. And she couldn't speak English you see.
So were you brought up speaking Italian?
I could speak a bit of Italian yes. But my mum couldn't speak English.
So that must have been very difficult for her.
Must have been terrible. Did she survive all this? Did she end up a nice rounded easy mum?
She did. But her dad had an affair with somebody who he eventually married and they had nine children.
And I think he met her when he was working on the buses. I think he was a bus conductor when he met her.
And they ended up having a lot of children.
Oh my God.
But Jean, his wife, wouldn't let me have anything to do with the children.
I tried to see him and everything you know. Because we're half sisters and brothers.
But she hated me because I belonged to an Italian that the Brits fought against.
You really carried a lot of your life. You've got over it now.
Oh yeah. Oh yeah definitely.
But my mum was dying emotionally. So well.
Well listen, thank you so much because that's a really interesting memory.